IBX-2375: SEO (#159)
ezsystems/user-documentation: docs/search_engine_optimization/work_with_seo.md

---
description: Enable search engine optimization and increase content visibility by defining meta tags.
---

# Work with SEO

For the Search Engine Optimization (SEO) feature to help you optimize the searchability 

> and visibility of your content, you must enable it first. 
> Then you must define the contents of individual tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and visibility of your content, you must enable it first, and
next, define the contents of individual tags.
```

> To do it, you must be able to [edit Content Types](../site_organization/organizing_the_site.md#content-types).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do it, make sure you can [edit Content Types](../site_organization/organizing_the_site.md#content-types).
```

## Enable SEO

1. Click **Content** to display content management options, and then **Content Types**.

> 2. Drill down the content group and click the edit icon next to the Content Type that you want to modify.

Reviewer: Style guide tells to avoid using phrasal verbs in the documentation.

> 3. Go to the **SEO** section and select the **Enable SEO for this content type** toggle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Go to the **SEO** section and switch the **Enable SEO for this content type** toggle.
```

4. Click **Save** to save your changes.

> ## Define Meta Tags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Define Meta tags
```

When you edit the Content Type definition, in the **SEO** section, go to the 
**Meta tags** area, and provide values for the following meta tags:

- **Title** - Represents the title of the Content item that you want to promote
- **Description** - Represents a summary of your Content item
- **Keywords** - Keywords are ideas and topics that define what your content is about
- **Canonical** - Tells search engines which copy of content is the original that should appear in search results

When you populate the SEO fields, you can create patterns by using a schema with 
attributes which correspond to identifiers of fields that make up the Content Type.
As a result, SEO tags are filled in at Content item generation phase with specific 
contents of such fields. For example, if you enter `<title>.<format> - <author>` 
as a value of the **Title** tag, the search engine will return 
`Silmarillion. Illustrated edition - J.R.R. Tolkien`.

![SEO tags](img/SEO_tags.png)`

You can also fine-tune the way your content is presented when linked from 
a social media platform by populating the social media-specific meta tags 
in the exact same way: 

> Fill in fields in the **OpenGraph** and **Twitter** sections with patterns 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fill in fields in the **OpenGraph** and **Twitter** sections with patterns 
```

to configure the Facebook and Twitter presentation respectively. 
<!--If you leave these fields blank, social media snippets are generated based on 
the definitions that you provided in the search engine meta tag fields.-->

## Preview meta tags of Content item

> You can preview how the actual SEO tags for a specific Content item 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can preview what the actual SEO tags for a specific Content item 
```

will look like when they are passed to a search engine or social media platform.

1. In Content Tree, navigate to the Content item.

> 2. On the Content item details screen, go to the SEO tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On the Content item details screen, click the SEO tab.
```

3. Review the contents of the **resolved** fields.

![SEO tab in Content item details](img/SEO_tab.png)`

## Override meta tags of Content item

When you want a specific Content item to appear in search results differently than 
the other items of a specific Content Type, you can override the contents of SEO tags.

> You might want, for example, to add a shout out to the title after the author of content 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can, for example, to add a shout out to the title after the author of content 
```
